# ics4u-summative

This is the Github repository for all files involved with my portfolio, with the emphasis being the code for the website that displays the portfolio. The link is https://masoudkarimi04.github.io/ics4u-summative/

Cubing Module (Not used in portfolio): https://github.com/MasoudKarimi04/cubing-workflow

Creative Coding Session : https://github.com/MasoudKarimi04/flappy-bird-presentation-


How will you continue learning about computer science?

I think that I have been able to develop more effective learning skills in regards to coding as a result of how the course was structure. It offered flexibility as well as forcing the student to think more critically and be able to learn concepts without the need of organized lessons. I think that is truly an important skill since it is inevitable you teach yourself more skills as you further progress in learning concepts in post secondary and even when you get the opportunity to enter the industry. Personally, I have intentions on following multiple UDemy courses such as creating more JS side projects, following plenty more CodeCademy courses since they are structured in an approachable sense and to potentially keep working on FreeCodeCamp. Since my Discord Bot was my first sense of building a side project on my own, I hope to keep developing stuff like that in the future to further justify that I understand the concepts. Furthermore, apart from independently learning concepts in my free time, I wish to pursue organized forms of learning in the sense that I will be joining a Robotics team in the near future and also intend on applying to tech-related jobs which can function as the guided outlet for learning in contrast to me doing everything by myself. I personally feel as the more commitment you put in, the more benefits you will received since I can easily admit to idealizing the benefit I got from putting so much work into this course and in my portfolio.


What should one take note of your portfolio?

I'd like to show my versatility with the portfolio. I have multiple coding and markdown languages apart from the mandatory ones such as Python, SQL and jQuery (a library is still new content), and how I also emphasize that you can link these concepts together to create a genuine project. For example, I explain how that with the help of the Khan Acadeny AND multiple FreeCodeCamp modules helped me learn how to develop a Discord Bot using custom syntax and Node JS. The tiny skills I picked up along the way was crucial in helping me problem solve and therefore demonstrate my learning. I also had a lot of issue of what to include in my portfolio since I realized I had too much information, so I did cut it down but not simply removing stuff, but integrating it to my other modules to give the sense that I learned more than what was expected. Examples of this include my Computer Science Principles module has other units included but not meant to be counted, and the various FCC modules I showed for completing but didn't really set a specific project to. The reasoning for doing so is the idea that I am prepared to take initiative to learn more concepts in order to fully demonstrate my capabilities as a programmer.


Summarize your experience with FreeCodeCamp


It was a valuable learning experience, since I started the JS module at the start of the course, it felt like a refresher of the concepts discussed in the Khan Academy equivalent. The thing that seperates this is that the concepts learned in FCC go more in depth with much more difficult questions in adjacent, however this can be a little problematic since there's no video guidance across the lessons. There is video help, which I used a couple times but that wasn't similar to the Khan Academy style in which the video is the lesson which can help build the foundation to do challenges by yourself. Apart from that, it was very fast paced and my main critique was that you were prone to simply forgetting things learned. The reasoning for that is because once you complete a question, you tend to not see that concept again specifically. This caused me to go back a lot of times to simply review what I learned in order to do the following projects. In its entirety however, I did learn much more than Khan Academy would've ever shown since the curriculum is so much more thorough. I never understood what principles such as Regular Expressions were but after doing the unit I can decently read it out and understand what the code is trying to do with the string. It also showed me new stuff for good habit like newer methods to access objects and data structures and new ways of using functions. As a result, the FCC lessons I did were probably the most important part of my portfolio as it really adhered all the concepts learned into one area which then became useful to me when I made my Creative Coding Session and more importantly my Node JS Discord Bot. The HTML lessons were very similar to Khan's but did introduce new concepts such as buttons and forms, as well as more accessibility features and the CSS Flexbox. These skills helped me develop my website to look a bit more appealing with the use of interactive buttoms and a side bar since these topics weren't specifically introduced in Khan Academy. 


